# Peer to Peer (P2P) - An overview of the Hydrafiles network

The internet originally was P2P, all computers connected to the internet were identical. You just needed to know a computer's IP to talk to it, with servers and desktops having the same access to the internet.

Then came websites. Clients were able to connect to a website hosted by a server, and receive content from that server. Clients use browsers to connect to servers, which sandbox the device's ability to connect to the internet. With modern
day browsers, clients are unable to communicate with other clients without the assistance of servers. We also got domains and certicate authorities, both of which introduced hierarchical power (centralisation) to the web. To add fuel to the
fire, majority of ISPs around the world decided to block many critical network protocols for end-users, such as port listening or by forcing dynamic IPs. At the same time, everyone is starting to hoard IPs.

The internet in it's current state consists of a very small minority of websites facilitating the majority of the internet's traffic. This is a huge issue for privacy, security, and freedom of speech. To address the above issues, Hydrafiles
introduces much needed layers, each aimed at fixing a flaw of the internet in it's current state, creating a "new internet".

## P2P Layer

### Spartacus Routing

To solve the inability for clients to communicate with eachother, Hydrafiles creates a layer that is agnostic to the underlying network protocol used. This means that the same data can be sent over HTTP, WebRTC, or WebSockets. This is
important as it allows for the same data to be available to all peers, regardless of their network capabilities. This layer is called the Spartacus Router, a very large gossip network. What differentiates the Spartacus Router from standard
gossip networks is that all peers act identically, across multiple network protocols. Another benefit to Spartacus Routing is privacy. The source and destination of requests are obscured, as peers listening for requests can't differentiate
between messages that have been relayed, or received from the origin.

### Decentralised Signalling (The Handshake)

WebRTC is a hacked-on effort to bring less-sandboxed network functionalities to the web. WebRTC allows 2 browsers to create a direct line of communication with eachother. WebRTC however requires a server to assist with creating the
connection or the handshake. The standard approach to WebRTC handshakes is using a signalling server. A very simply put explanation of this process is; a browser sends their information to a server, which a second browser can retrieve it
from. The second browser can then send it's information back, and then a direct line of communication can be opened. The flaw in this model is that a centralised server must be involved to faciliate this connection (usually multiple). To
solve this, all Hydrafiles nodes act as signalling servers. Nodes can use any peer to faciliate the handshake process, meaning connections between web peers can't be censored unless all desktop nodes are involved. In addition to this,
in-case no full nodes are accessible, you are able to plug-in any WebSocket multicast room which can be used for signalling.

Using these core layers, you are able to connect to the internet the cypherpunks of the 90s imagined, what it was supposed to be. But why stop here? Now that a free, open, and anonymous internet has been acheived, quite a few much-needed
standards are possible. Hydrafiles is designed in such a way where if peers don't agree to a set of standards, they can still co-exist, where they only communicate about standards they can agree on.

## Universal Schemas

### File Distribution

The current internet is a waste of bandwidth, storage, and human time. As a developer, if you need to store static data, you are likely to put it in an S3 bucket, store in in a VPS, or something similar. The same GIF might be stored in 10k
computers at a time (servers, cache, cdn's, indexers, etc). With all it's redundancy, availability however is terrible. If I host an image at example.com/image.png and I delete that image, if someone else has a copy of that file, you can't
access it. The first layer built on-top of Hydrafiles (and what Hydrafiles was originally built for) was file distribution. Hydrafiles' solution to file distribution is similar to Bittorrent's solution with P2P data availability, however
with the Spartacus Router, content is available to web peers as if it was served by a server. Because all files on the Hydrafiles network follow the same standard for distribution, things such as a global file index are possible, without
the need for crawling or centralised search engines. Imagine that, a 100% local search engine with a list of all files on the internet.

### API Endpoints

API endpoints are the magic behind Web 2.0, an internet where servers are able to talk to eachother and exchange variable data. A sorta P2P for servers. APIs involve a server running a script with dynamic output each time a client sends a
request. Web APIs however are client server. This means APIs can only be hosted by servers, not browsers. Hydrafiles services are API endpoints routed through the Spartacus Router. This provides the anonymity for both the sender and
receiver of a request. This also allows for APIs o be hosted by web nodes. This makes dynamic backends possible without servers.

### API Indexing

To prevent the centralisation and censorship of Hydrafiles services, Hydrafiles uses the Hydra Name Service (HNS). The HNS is a simple blockchain ledger where peers submit a PoW challenge to get their API listed. Once an API is in the
ledger, it can never be removed, making censorship impossible. A 51% attack / the longest-chain scenario are not relevant here. Even if HNS were to fork, both forked blockchains can be searched. Because there is no monetary involvement,
consensus is not required for APIs to be indexed, making censorship double impossible.

### Hydrafiles Services

Hydrafiles services allow for many things which were previously impossible on the internet, as users are able to host dynamic APIs in their browser. The HNS also acts as a registry of open source Hydrafiles services. What this means is that
services can be open sourced, with users being able to choose from the registry and run any service. For example, instead of choosing which centralised service (e.g. WhatsApp or Telegram) to trust, you simply select a package from the
registry, where new open-standards can arise for arbitrary tasks.
