# Why Use Hydrafiles Instead of Tor, Bit/WebTorrent, and I2P?

Hydrafiles was originally designed to replace the traditional client-server relationship when serving static files, with a P2P relationship.

The problem originally was allowing websites and applications to distribute static files via traditional HTTP rails with privacy and P2P redundancy. Standard BitTorrent can't be used on the web, and WebTorrent comes with many limitations
such as a WebRTC dependency and requiring browsers to run JavaScript to download content. Many WebTorrent trackers also seem to be down more often than they're online, making bootstrapping to the network sometimes impossible.

## TOR & I2P

Hydrafiles now allows nodes to run APIs/backends through the network, using Hydrafiles as a reverse proxy to preserve privacy over vanilla HTTP, WS, or WebRTC.

Let's start with a privacy comparison. With Tor & I2P, if you control x% of the network, you have y% probability of deducing the origin of content. With Hydrafiles, you must control all but one node, to know what he is doing. Even if you
control 90% of the network, you don't know where content originates from, just that it came from that 10%. This arguably makes Hydrafiles less traceable than Tor & I2P.

Next is availability/accessibility. Same as BitTorrent, with Tor & I2P, your users need special software to access the network and retrieve content. With Hydrafiles, clients can leech from the network using normal HTTP requests or using a
WebSocket connection, optionally running a full node to validate or contribute to the network.

Finally, there is user privacy. Hydrafiles now provides user privacy. Because of Hydrafiles' Spartacus Routing, the origin of a request is obscured as the receiver cannot distinguish between the origin and receivers.
