## What is a web/full node?
- **Web nodes** run in your browser. Websites can import the Hydrafiles library and run a web node in your browser.
- **Full nodes** run on your computer like actual applications.

## Differences
The browser environment is sandboxed, forcing Hydrafiles to implement some **hacky** solutions. Many of the basic features available to full nodes are impossible normally in browsers.

The core differences include:
- **No Ports:** Before v0.6, Hydrafiles ran purely on HTTP. All peers were required to run an HTTP server to contribute to the network (seed). As of v0.6, Hydrafiles now supports WebRTC. Hydrafiles full nodes still support HTTP, but both now support WebRTC. This allows for web nodes to contribute to the network (and anonymity-set). Full nodes now also host a WebSocket room to in-house signalling.
- **No SQLite:** Hydrafiles uses SQLite. SQLite is not supported in browsers. There is also no modern implementation of SQL in the web either. Web nodes now use IndexedDB as the database.
- **No File System:** Websites are unable to access your filesystem. Modern browsers are starting to support FileSystem API, which solves this. But [support is lackluster](https://caniuse.com/?search=showDirectoryPicker) with only chromium-based desktop browsers supporting it. To solve this, we have implemented a virtual file system. Web nodes wraps IndexedDB to make it act like a file system, treating each file write as a row insert, and file read as a row read.

| Feature     | Full Node   | Web Node                               |
|-------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| WebRTC      | Seed+Leech  | Seed+Leech                             |
| HTTP        | Seed+Leech  | Leech Only                             |
| WebSocket   | Seed+Leech  | Leech Only                             |
| Database    | SQLite      | IndexedDB                              |
| File System | File System | FileSystem API (or IndexedDB Fallback) |